# Meteor Up Configuration

When initializing a new project, Meteor Up will create two files for you: mup.json and settings.json.

`mup.json` will hold all our deployment-related settings, while settings.json will contain all app-related settings (OAuth tokens, analytics tokens, etc.).

The next step is to configure your mup.json file. Here is the default mup.json file generated by mup init, and all you have to do is fill in the blanks:

```json
{
  //server authentication info
  "servers": [{
    "host": "hostname",
    "username": "root",
    "password": "password"
    //or pem file (ssh based authentication)
    //"pem": "~/.ssh/id_rsa"
  }],

  //install MongoDB in the server
  "setupMongo": true,

  //location of app (local directory)
  "app": "/path/to/the/app",

  //configure environmental
  "env": {
    "ROOT_URL": "http://supersite.com"
  }
}
```

Let's walk through each of these settings.

### Server Authentication

You'll notice that Meteor Up supports password based and private key (PEM) based authentication, so it can be used with almost any cloud provider.

Important note: if you choose to use password-based authentication, make sure you've installed `sshpass` first ([refer to this guide](https://gist.github.com/arunoda/7790979)).

### MongoDB Configuration

The next step is to configure a MongoDB database for your app. We recommend using [Compose](https://www.compose.io/) or any other cloud MongoDB provider, since they offer professional support and better management tools.

If you've decided to use Compose, set `setupMongo` as `false` and add the `MONGO_URL` environmental variable in `mup.json`'s `env` block. If you decided to host MongoDB with Meteor Up, just set `setupMongo` as `true` and Meteor Up will take care of the rest.

### Meteor App Path

Since our Meteor Up configuration lives in a different directory, we'll need to point Meteor Up back to our app using the `app` property. Just input your full local path, which you can get using the `pwd` command from the terminal when located inside your app's directory.

### Environment Variables

You can specify all of your app's environment variables (such as `ROOT_URL`, `MAIL_URL`, `MONGO_URL`, etc.) inside the `env` block.